= ICMP Library for EventMachine

== Summary

This gem allows you to send ICMP echo requests and handle ICMP echo replies.

*Note* - This library was inspired by https://github.com/jakedouglas/icmp4em, and the gem shares the same name. While most of the functionality was copied forward, the two libraries are not 100% compatible. If upgrading from the old (0.0.2) to the new (1.0.0+), be sure to read the documentation and test thoroughly.

== Features

Version 0.2.0 supports:

* Sending and receiving ICMP echo requests / replies
* A configurable timeout / retry count
* A separate proxy process that, running as root, can send ICMP packets on behalf of other non-root processes. See below.

Future revisions of this library will support:

* Ruby fibers


== Simple Example

  EM.run {
    manager = ICMP4EM::Manager.new
  
    request = manager.ping "8.8.8.8"

    request.callback { puts "SUCCESS" }
    request.errback { |e| puts "FAILURE, got error #{e}" }
  }


== ICMP Proxy

Typically, sending ICMP packets requires a process to have root privileges. This is often less than ideal. Work arounds are also less than wonderful, often involving sending a TCP or UDP packet in the hopes of receiving a response.

This library supports the notion of an ICMP proxy via the included +icmp-proxy+ script. Running as root, it accepts UDP requests from non-root processes to handle the sending of ICMP packets.

With the +icmp-proxy+ running on the local host, it's trivial to configure:

  manager = ICMP4EM::Manager.new(:proxy => true)

*Note* - The +icmp-proxy+ must run as root, and accepts incoming connections. By default, it binds to the localhost and will not accept connections from other hosts. This is configurable (run the proxy with +--help+ to see options). While it is possible to accept requests from other hosts, any root-owned process accepting packets from the Internet is an inherent security risk. Help improve the proxy by familiarizing yourself with its code before trusting it to the Internet.


== Running tests

A simple rspec test is included.


== Configuration parameters

The following parameters may be passed to the ICMP4EM::Manager constructor (to affect all pings) or as arguments following the IP address when pinging an individual host:

* *timeout* - Number of seconds to wait for a response
* *retries* - Number of retries before eventually failing

The following parameter may be passed to the ICMP4EM::Manager constructor to enable use of the ICMP proxy (see above):

* *proxy* - Set to <tt>true</tt> to use a proxy on the localhost, or <tt>host:port</tt> to use a proxy on another host.


== Acknowledgements

* The previous library, https://github.com/jakedouglas/icmp4em
* EventMachine[http://rubyeventmachine.com], by Francis Cianfrocca and Aman Gupta
* All the helpful folks on the Freenode #eventmachine channel


== Change Log

Version 0.2.0:

* ICMP proxy support

Version 0.1.0:

* First import

== Credits

Author: Norman Elton  mailto:normelton@gmail.com